### perturb_structure.py

---

This function calls the `perturb_structure.py` script to generate the perturbed structures.

`<input.vasp>`: `filename.vasp`

`<pert_num>`: number of perturbed structures

`<cell_pert_fraction>`: A fraction determines how much (relatively) will cell deform

`<atom_pert_distance>`: A distance determines how far atoms will move (in angstrom).

`<atom_pert_style>`: `<uniform>`, `<normal>`, `<const>`

#### Usage

```sh
python perturb_structure.py <input.vasp> <pert_num> <cell_pert_fraction> <atom_pert_distance> <atom_pert_style>
```

#### Example

```sh
python perturb_structure.py FAPbI3.vasp 20 0.03 0.2 normal
```

This command will generate 20 perturbed structures.

### pynep_select_structs.py

---

This script samples structures by using the farthest point sampling method implemented in the `pynep` package.

#### Usage

```sh
python pynep_select_structs.py <sampledata_file> <traindata_file> <nep_model_file> <min_distance>
```

#### Example

```sh
python pynep_select_structs.py dump.xyz train.xyz nep.txt 0.01
```

### sample_structures.py

---

This script samples structures from an `extxyz` file using either '`uniform`' or '`random`' sampling methods. The sampled structures are then written to the '`sampled_structures.xyz`' file.

`<extxyz_file>`: The path to the input extxyz file containing structures.

`<sampling_method>`: The sampling method to use. Can be '`uniform`' or '`random`'.

`<num_samples>`: The number of samples to extract from the input file.

#### Usage

```sh
python sample_structures.py <extxyz_file> <sampling_method> <num_samples>
```

#### Example

```sh
python sample_structures.py train.xyz uniform 10
```

This command will sample 10 structures uniformly from `train.xyz` and save them to `sampled_structures.xyz`.

### select_max_modev.py

---

Select max force deviation structures from `active.xyz` generated by the command `active` in gpumd.

#### Usage

```sh
python select_max_modev.py <structs_num> <threshold>
```

#### Example

```sh
python select_max_modev.py 100 0.15
```

This command will extract top 100 max force deviation structures in `active.xyz`. `0.15` is the threshold set in the `active` command.


---

Thank you for using `GPUMDkit`! If you have any questions or need further assistance, feel free to open an issue on our GitHub repository or contact Zihan YAN (yanzihan@westlake.edu.cn).
